---
id: 2
state: approved
created: 2018-08-23
placement:
  category: meta
  order: 20
---

# AIP Numbering AIP 编号

The AIP system provides a mechanism to index and have a single source of truth
for API Improvement Proposals, as well as iterate on them collaboratively and
transparently.

This document describes the AIP numbering system.

AIP 系统提供了一种机制来索引 API 改进提案并拥有单一的事实来源，并以协作和透明的方式对其进行迭代。
本文档描述了 AIP 编号系统。

## Assigning AIP Numbers 分配 AIP 编号

The AIP editors (see [AIP-1](./0001.md)) are responsible for assigning a number
to each AIP when it is accepted as a draft for review. Importantly, _all_ AIPs
have numbers, not just approved ones. The [AIP Index](/) clearly delineates
which AIPs are approved and binding and which are under discussion.

The editors may decide to reserve a specific block of numbers for groups of
AIPs that are related in some way (for example, that are only scoped to a
specific subset of APIs).

Beyond this, AIP numbers are assigned arbitrarily. In general, the editors will
take the next AIP number off of the stack to assign to a draft AIP, but
occasionally may use a special/joke number if useful for mnemonic or other
reasons.

## AIP Blocks AIP 块

Currently recognized blocks of AIP numbers are:

### Generally Applicable

- **1-99:** Reserved for meta-AIPs (generally process-related). 为元 AIP 保留（通常与流程相关）
- **100-999:** General API design guidance 通用 API 设计指南

### Google Product Areas

- **2700-2799:** Apps (GSuite)
- **2500-2599:** Cloud
- **3000-3099:** Actions on Google
- **3200-3299:** Firebase
- **4100-4199:** Auth libraries
- **4200-4299:** Client libraries
- **4600-4699:** Geo

To request a block for a specific team that is publishing API guidance or
documentation germane to that specific team, reach out to api-editors@.

## Changelog

- **2019-10-03:** The 3000-3099 block was assigned to Actions on Google.
- **2019-01-26:** The general API design guidance block was expanded to include
  100-199.
- **2018-10-24:** The 4600-4699 block was assigned to Google Geo.
- **2018-10-02:** The 2500-2599 block was assigned to Google Cloud Platform.
- **2018-10-02:** The 2700-2799 block was assigned to Google Apps.
