---
id: 144
state: approved
created: 2020-03-19
placement:
  category: fields
  order: 50
---

# Repeated fields

Representing lists of data in an API is trickier than it often appears. Users
often need to modify lists in place, and longer data series within a single
resource pose a challenge for pagination.

## Guidance

Resources **may** use repeated fields where appropriate.

```proto
message Book {
  string name = 1;
  repeated string authors = 2;
}
```

- Repeated fields **must** use a plural field name.
  - If the English singular and plural words are identical ("moose", "info"),
    the dictionary word **must** be used rather than attempting to coin a new
    plural form.
- Repeated fields **should** have an enforced upper bound that will not cause a
  single resource payload to become too large. A good rule of thumb is 100
  elements.
  - If repeated data has the chance of being too large, the API **should** use
    a sub-resource instead.
- Repeated fields **must not** represent the body of another resource inline.
  Instead, the message **should** provide the resource names of the associated
  resources.

- 重复字段**必须**使用复数字段名称。
   - 如果英文单复数单词相同（“moose”、“info”），
     字典中的词**必须**被使用，而不是试图创造一个新的
     复数形式。
- 重复字段**应该**有一个强制上限，不会导致
   单一资源负载变得太大。 一个好的经验法则是 100
   元素。
   - 如果重复数据有可能太大，API**应该**使用
     一个子资源。
- 重复字段**不得**代表另一个内联资源的主体。
   相反，消息**应该**提供关联的资源名称
   资源。

### Scalars and messages 标量和消息

Repeated fields **should** use a scalar type (such as `string`) if they are
certain that additional data will not be needed in the future, as using a
message type adds significant cognitive overhead and leads to more complicated
code.

However, if additional data is likely to be needed in the future, repeated
fields **should** use a message instead of a scalar proactively, to avoid
parallel repeated fields.

### Update strategies

A resource **may** use two strategies to enable updating a repeated field:
direct update using the [standard `Update`][aip-134] method, or custom `Add`
and `Remove` methods.

A standard `Update` method has one key limitation: the user is only able to
update _the entire_ list. Field masks are unable to address individual entries
in a repeated field. This means that the user must read the resource, make
modifications to the repeated field value as needed, and send it back. This is
fine for many situations, particularly when the repeated field is expected to
have a small size (fewer than 10 or so) and race conditions are not an issue,
or can be guarded against with [ETags][aip-154].

**Note:** Declarative-friendly resources **must** use the standard `Update`
method, and not introduce `Add` and `Remove` methods. If declarative tools need
to reason about particular relationships while ignoring others, consider using
a subresource instead.

If atomic modifications are required, the API **should** define custom methods
using the verbs `Add` and `Remove`:

**Note:** If both of these strategies are too restrictive, consider using a
subresource instead.

```proto
rpc AddAuthor(AddAuthorRequest) returns (Book) {
  option (google.api.http) = {
    post: "/v1/{book=publishers/*/books/*}:addAuthor"
    body: "*"
  };
}

rpc RemoveAuthor(RemoveAuthorRequest) returns (Book) {
  option (google.api.http) = {
    post: "/v1/{book=publishers/*/books/*}:removeAuthor"
    body: "*"
  };
}
```

- The data being added or removed **should** be a primitive (usually a
  `string`).
  - For more complex data structures with a primary key, the API **should** use
    a map with the `Update` method instead.
- The RPC's name **must** begin with the word `Add` or `Remove`. The remainder
  of the RPC name **should** be the singular form of the field being added.
- The request message **must** match the RPC name, with a `-Request` suffix.
- The response message **should** be the resource itself, unless there is useful
  context to provide in the response, in which case the response message must
  match the RPC name, with a `-Response` suffix.
  - When the response is the resource itself, it **should** include the
    fully-populated resource.
- The HTTP verb **must** be `POST`, as is usual for [custom methods][aip-136].
- The HTTP URI **must** end with `:add*` or `:remove*`, where `*` is the
  snake-case singular name of the field being added or removed.
- The request message field receiving the resource name **should** map to the
  URI path.
  - The HTTP variable **should** be the name of the resource (such as `book`)
    rather than `name` or `parent`.
  - That variable **should** be the only variable in the URI path.
- The body clause in the `google.api.http` annotation **should** be `"*"`.
- If the data being added in an `Add` RPC is already present, the method
  **must** error with `ALREADY_EXISTS`.
- If the data being removed in a `Remove` RPC is not present, the method
  **must** error with `NOT_FOUND`.

#### Request Message

```proto
message AddAuthorRequest {
  // The name of the book to add an author to.
  string book = 1 [
    (google.api.field_behavior) = REQUIRED,
    (google.api.resource_reference).type = "library.googleapis.com/Book"
  ];

  string author = 2 [(google.api.field_behavior) = REQUIRED];
}

message RemoveAuthorRequest {
  // The name of the book to remove an author from.
  string book = 1 [
    (google.api.field_behavior) = REQUIRED,
    (google.api.resource_reference).type = "library.googleapis.com/Book"
  ];

  string author = 2 [(google.api.field_behavior) = REQUIRED];
}
```

- A resource field **must** be included. It **should** be the name of the
  resource (such as `book`) rather than `name` or `parent`.
  - The field **should** be [annotated as required][aip-203].
  - The field **should** identify the [resource type][aip-123] that it
    references.
- A field for the value being added or removed **must** be included. It
  **should** be the singular name of the field.
  - The field **should** be [annotated as required][aip-203].
- The request message **must not** contain any other required fields, and
  **should not** contain other optional fields except those described in this
  or another AIP.

## Changelog

- **2020-10-17**: Recommended returning the resource itself in Add and Remove
  RPCs over separate response types.
- **2020-10-17**: Added guidance for Add and Remove RPCs and requests.

[aip-123]: ./0123.md
[aip-134]: ./0134.md
[aip-136]: ./0136.md
[aip-154]: ./0154.md
[aip-203]: ./0203.md
